# Affordable-Smart-Home-Alert-System

Every 3 minutes, a burglary, robbery, or break-in is taking place in India, and its high time we reconsider the safety levels of our home. Surprisingly, 70% of all thefts in India are home thefts while only 30% are digital thefts. This emphasizes that home safety requires equal or more attention than is enjoyed by digital safety as 61% of people don't want to upgrade to high-tech safety for homes. To add to this already pathetic situation, another R&D reveals, out of the 11,037 Fire Accidents, a total of 6,364 accidents i.e., around 57% occurred in Residential Buildings. While the no.of incidents in the residential buildings has come down over the period of time, their proportion in the overall fire accidents has seen a steady increase year-on-year. 

So we are motivated by the fact that providing an affordable and at the same time an efficient Modern Home Alert System, which will drastically reflect on the above mentioned R&D statistics and make the graph flat to ”zero theft”. Our model uses a touch sensor, PIR sensor and a MQ2 smoke detector sensors to provide a complete secured alert system for domestic purpose, which can be set up easily as it just requires a micro-controller, a GSM module through which an alert message is sent to the respective owner.

In order to overcome the problem of domestic theft or robbery, we have introduced two levels of safety alert system. The first is with the help of a touch sensor which will be fixed in the handle of the door. When the sensor senses a continuous touch for more than 3 seconds, the user gets an alert message stating the same. The second level includes a PIR sensor placed inside the home near the door which informs the user when any intruder is sensed. Also, with the help of the smoke detector, any fire accident or LPG gas leakage can be detected and the user gets notified as well.

One of the most common reason for thefts or home intrudes is the fact that the thieves are confident that they cannot be easily tracked as the house owners might only get to know about the incident lately. Our cost effective model would help people to identify if there is any suspicious activity happening in their home. Also with the increase in the no.of users of our product, thieves and robbers wouldn’t dare to intrude a home easily as they might be well aware of these kind of alert systems.

Our product which consists of relatively cheaper hardware focus not only the public, business buildings but mainly for domestic purpose. With the option to turn the alert system on/off, the user need not worry about power consumption too. The model when implemented, can generate revenue as today’s lifestyle highly demands for it thereby making our product a profitable business model.
